                                                        AI AND PLAGIARISM 
                                                        
The use of technology in academic writing is already widespread. For example, many universities already use text-based plagiarism detectors like Turnitin, while students might use Grammarly, a cloud-based writing assistant. Examples of writing support include automatic text generation, extraction, prediction, mining, form-filling, paraphrasing, translation and transcription.

Advancements in AI technology have led to new tools, products and services being offered to writers to improve content and efficiency. As these improve, soon entire articles or essays might be generated and written entirely by artificial intelligence. In schools, the implications of such developments will undoubtedly shape the future of learning, writing and teaching.

Misconduct concerns already widespread
Research has revealed that concerns over academic misconduct are already widespread across institutions higher education in Canada and internationally.

In Canada, there is little data regarding the rates of misconduct. Research published in 2006 based on data from mostly undergraduate students at 11 higher education institutions found 53 per cent reported having engaged in one or more instances of serious cheating on written work, which was defined as copying material without footnoting, copying material almost word for word, submitting work done by someone else, fabricating or falsifying a bibliography, submitting a paper they either bought or got from someone else for free.

AI-generated content is not considered plagiarism as per the definition of plagiarism. Plagiarism refers to copying other people’s content, whether it is word-for-word or paraphrased, to avoid detection. According to Merriam-Webster, plagiarism is taking someone else’s ideas or words and presenting them as one’s own1. However, the proliferation of AI tools that can generate original-sounding text has made it easier for students to pass off the work of others as their own, making it more difficult for educators to identify and prevent plagiarism

Scribbr’s AI Detector is a tool that can detect AI-generated content like ChatGPT3.5, GPT4, and Google Bard in seconds. It measures specific characteristics of the text like sentence structure and length, word choice, and predictability to find text that looks like it was generated by an AI writing tool
