                                       AI AND PLAGIARISM 

AI-generated content is not considered plagiarism as per the definition of plagiarism. Plagiarism refers to copying other people’s content, whether it is word-for-word or paraphrased, to avoid detection. According to Merriam-Webster, plagiarism is taking someone else’s ideas or words and presenting them as one’s own1. However, the proliferation of AI tools that can generate original-sounding text has made it easier for students to pass off the work of others as their own, making it more difficult for educators to identify and prevent plagiarism

Scribbr’s AI Detector is a tool that can detect AI-generated content like ChatGPT3.5, GPT4, and Google Bard in seconds. It measures specific characteristics of the text like sentence structure and length, word choice, and predictability to find text that looks like it was generated by an AI writing too.

It is important to note that AI detectors and plagiarism checkers differ in terms of how they work and what they are looking for. AI detectors try to find text that looks like it was generated by an AI writing tool, while plagiarism checkers try to find text that is copied from a different source



This project is done by the students of DSU, AI-ML dept under prof Pradeep kumar, assistant prof @ dsu, AI-ML. 
Plagiarism checker using n-gram and jaccard similarity. 

Overall, the traditional landscape surrounding academic integrity and authorship is being rapidly reshaped by technological developments. Such technological developments also spark concerns about a shift of professional control away from educators and ever-increasing new expectations of digital literacy in precarious working environments.

These complexities, concerns and questions will require further thought and discussion. Educational stakeholders at all levels will be required to respond and rethink definitions as well as values surrounding plagiarism, originality, academic ethics and academic labour in the very near future.
