A growing concern is the use of artificial intelligence (AI) chatbots to write entire essays and articles. While it may be tempting to use AI in this way, please be aware that this is also considered a form of plagiarism. 

Notice the parts of the policy that have been italicized for emphasis. These highlight a couple of important things:

Doing academic work requires that the work you turn in is your own. A paper that is written by AI is not considered your own original work. 
It doesn’t matter which AI program/software you use. Using any of these to write your papers is considered a form of plagiarism. 
 
It is important to note that tools that check your writing are okay to use. Examples can include the autocorrect feature in Google Docs and the app Grammarly. These tools, which scan pieces of writing for errors and/or make suggestions for edits, are very different from AI programs that write entire papers. The key difference is that it is your own original writing that is being scanned for possible mistakes versus AI that does all the writing for you.

Also, keep in mind that professors do in fact have tools that enable them to check if papers have been written by AI. One example of this is GPTZero. As AI evolves, these anti-plagiarism tools are also being upgraded to ensure that plagiarism can be detected. 

San José State University regards plagiarism as academic dishonesty. Plagiarizing can result in: 
Receiving a lower grade on assignment
Failing an assignment
Receiving a lower course grade
Failing a course

A key concern moving forward is the apparent movement towards the increased automation of education where educational technology companies offer commodities such as writing tools as proposed solutions for the various “problems” within education.

An example of this is automated assessment of student work, such as automated grading of student writing. Numerous commercial products already exist for automated grading, though the ethics of these technologies are yet to be fully explored by scholars and educators.

Overall, the traditional landscape surrounding academic integrity and authorship is being rapidly reshaped by technological developments. Such technological developments also spark concerns about a shift of professional control away from educators and ever-increasing new expectations of digital literacy in precarious working environments.
